and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning and to check out my free
playbooks podcast resources or whenever
you're ready to apply to work with me
head over to Sam dunn.
org so in today's episode we're talking
about turning traffic into signups for
B2B companies I'm joined by Leah Taran
Leah a growth advisor over at learn.com
we're going to be talking about what
goes into a successful flow of turning
web traffic into those juicy demos
signups or sales calls we're going
talking about foundationals what you
need to be thinking about and putting
into play first some lesser known ideas
about turning traffic into sales
Pipeline and a little bit about mqls
versus sales qualified leads Leah
welcome to the show why not give us a
quick intro to yourself and we'll jump
straight in good morning thank you so
much Sam I am so excited that
introduction was so good I would love to
listen to it myself but uh yeah I'm bus
I'm busy I'm busy recording the episode
with you my name is Le I am a growth
adviser as you already said more
importantly I've been part of two
hypergrowth startups and um well as an
early employee and then grew with those
I've been ahead of product and now I got
tired of the entire corporate world so
now I'm just telling them how to do
things right and uh that's what I do
right now so I tell B2B companies
usually scale UPS on how to get growth
right no sounds like a fun role to be in
right now yeah I did it for 25 years
it's good enough now right like now I
know enough to make money with it love
it love it so let's jump straight in as
we always do um we we have a bunch of
marketers Founders and all kinds of
execs that tune into the show I want to
try and get actionable about how we can
turn their traffic into to Pipeline and
that means different things to different
companies right we've got plg companies
we've got companies that want to run
demos for their sales team and some some
smaller businesses that perhaps
bootstrapped in between that so this
this could go this could go anywhere but
what actually goes into a successful
campaign when it comes to turning that
traffic whether wherever it's come from
into a healthy flow of signups or Dem
for our sales force so this is this is
the one million1 billion dollar question
right so like if I can give you now an
easy framework that's going to be the
last show that everybody streams and
then you know we're both going to retire
so I think in general you always have to
zoom out a little bit so what is the
grander purpose of a company of course
it's but making Revenue without pissing
everyone off of course at the same time
so we want to make long-term Revenue in
some kind of way and when you kind of
separate it and look at it in this way
then you might think okay so we're going
to get some traffic in we're going to
convert this traffic and then we make
money of course we also need to have a
product and we need to have something
that is keeping people in because
otherwise it's just going to be
short-term revenue and this is my first
kind of gripe that I have because I'm
coming traditionally from a product side
so I've been ahead of product I've been
a product manager all my life I've not
been a marketer first I've always been a
marketer second and if you think about
it in this way what we see now much more
and more and more happening is that all
companies are trying to escape up market
so they try to make more money per
account specifically when they're in B2B
to make money from like you know one
specific account at the same time we
have more and more solutions that are
addressing the same problems with the
same kind of markets and that means it's
a different word for commoditization
right so like people are paying less for
the same kind of offering that you have
to do so you need to also expand your
offering if you want to do this but
let's say you do that let's say you
manage to create a product that is
really good that is allowing you to go a
little bit of market and you have your
salese ready to deal with all the mqls
all the marketing campaigns that you're
going to that you are going to
create one of the first things that I
see when I advise these companies
usually is that marketing is extremely
siloed off so it is a function
historically and it kind of makes sense
that is very limited to top of funnel
right so we thinking about so how much
how much traffic can we bring and these
are usually also the incentives so if
you want to figure out the character of
a company you usually look at their
incentives and what do I mean with that
what I mean is if you look at how a
marketing team is structured and if
they're measured on the amount of leads
that they bring and you see how these
leads are defined then you can
tell very quickly because people are
really good in optimizing whatever you
give them whether these leads are
actually tied to Quality or just
quantity now as a very early stage
startup it kind of works if you just
bring something in something's going to
convert fundamental question is like if
you want to have a business that scales
these leads still need to have a
specific quality for the dollars that
you spend so you can also repeat it
afterwards upwards what do I mean now
with that what I mean is let's take the
most extreme example of low traffic that
has to score high and that is if you
want to close Enterprise customers so
you cannot bring millions of people in
you can maybe bring three to 400 people
onto your website whereas one of those
is maybe a potential buyer that then is
going through what we see more and more
and more happening is that these
companies are starting to wise up so if
you sell to an
Enterprise um Market you usually have
salespeople of course that makes sense
you cannot do self serve so what do we
start to see we see companies now coming
up that are serving a very important
Market need which is interactive demos
and and these interactive demos they're
not actual product trials they're not
premiums they're just representations of
these particular products that are
coming in so how does this now connect
now with marketing let's say you have a
marketing campaign that is running and
you have a very specific budget and I
tell you I want you to bring me that
many mqls that are doing a very specific
action inside that interactive demo and
that action is not like oh I want to
schedule a sales call it has has to be
something else then we're getting closer
to what we talk about when we say hey
you need to measure your marketing
traffic by the quality because there are
a lot of steps in an Enterprise buyer
process between I heard about your
product and now I want to talk to a
salesperson to I now I'm going to close
this contract there can be months from
the very first touch point to the end
I'm sure you also talked about this
quite a lot you know like last
attribution first touch Point all of
this all of this crap sure we need to
kind of find steps beforehand that we
can identify and say like hey someone
that is really interested in our product
someone that is really loving the stuff
that we
do would only be doing this particular
action for instance you know visiting a
very specific site I don't know terms of
services or like reading through the
legal documents that we have on topas
that kind of stuff and if we can tie it
to that then you can start to create
meaningful Market campaigns because then
I can actually ask myself how many
dollars did I
spend per interested I wouldn't call it
the buyer but you know like per
interested user of a potential
Enterprise account that was doing a very
specific action that is much more
correlative than saying like oh we just
funnel people to sales calls there are a
lot of problems with setting goals like
this that's interesting I've not thought
about that before that's a really yeah
interesting point especially and still
like if if they got so far as going on
to the terms of service or a similar
page yeah let me let me ask let me ask
you a question so let's say you are a
marketer inside of a company like this
and you have to run a really big um
really big campaign and I'm
incentivizing you to optimize for sales
calls and let's say you're good friends
with the people who are creating the
interactive demos or you even sometimes
also marketing is sometimes also
creating these interative was with an
agency right like just as an
example what can you do that is harmful
to the
company but good for your goals that is
driving up the sales calls you can start
to take away what what can you start to
take away from these demos what is
pushing people to sales
calls inputting their data or grabbing
that data exactly you could start like
you could just you could just remove
stuff right so like you could say like
hey I'm not going to show you pricing
anymore this is pushing sales calls it
is of course it is but the problem is a
sales call is not an indication that the
customer is
successful and that is a problem because
the sales call is not driving
specifically business value it's not
true so when you're actually bringing in
um a pricing page or like you know
transparent pricing it is it is still
difficult for a lot of Enterprise
customers what we're essentially doing
is we're driving down the amount of
sales calls that is true is it bad for
the business no it's not because those
that do call you will often see that
they are pre-qualified you don't have
these difficult conversations with oh so
how much is this going to cost yeah
25,000 per month it's over our budget
right so like the entire conversation
starts to shift so you're pre-qualifying
your traffic and this is what I mean
with you have to look at goals and
incentives for marketing for sales for
product
holistically um what you want to reach
so do not pick uh Revenue goals as
operative team goals specifically when
you're a smaller company this should be
relatively easy to do um as a Founder
you probably don't have this problem but
as soon as you have 10 20
people be careful what you wish for we
usually say well to a certain extent you
do but if you're a bootstrap founder
then you're running probably running the
marketing yourself or you've got an
assistant or you've got someone else on
your team maybe there's three of you and
you're all splitting task and
responsibility is whatever that may so a
certain extent you're probably thinking
in your head if what I'd like to do is
well take this a bit lower Market I.E
startup or midmarket basis um but yeah
like you say you're probably still
saying well we need I don't know to run
20 sales call this month because we know
one in four of those is going to close
to a sale therefore we need this amount
of leads coming in so we can know we're
going to hit this amount of Revenue so
it still works it just means you don't
have a dedicated marketer running it
you're running it yourself so that is
true but here's here's an interesting so
here's an interesting thought experiment
so let's say you this founder right and
let's say you can control yourself and
you're not manipulating your own revenue
of course not right so like why would
you do that like you're still interested
in getting good quality traffic into the
company I mean nobody is just sabotaging
their own business so what do you do as
you scale as you scale or you get bigger
your company becomes successful you as a
Founder have to teach someone else on
how to sell right so like you go from
founder let sales you go to teaching
someone else to sell that is still very
directly connected to the founder right
it's C relatively close but you're
starting to get removed because you're
not going to be part of these sales
calls anymore as you go even bigger you
have to teach people how to teach
selling and how do you make sure that
someone that is now removed to kind of
structure Generations if you want to
call it that how do you make sure that
they are selling in the spirit that you
wanted to be in the company
we're doing this through incentives and
the more you are removed in these bigger
companies the more these incentives
actually start to matter it's not
because people want to abuse you it's
just if you tell a salesperson for
instance you're going to get money the
more the higher the contract is that
you're going to get in then they're
going to bring you the big
contract even if it's
detrimental for the
customer even if it's detrimental for
the customer and then you have
short-term revenue and you have mad uh
clients two down two years down the line
it's a great Point yeah that that is
zooming out properly isn't it because
that's really
thinking because this this mindset
thinking do we want to maximize demos
sales calls signups depending on whether
a product like growth motion or sales
motion
whatever because then like you say your
your marketing team whether that's
yourself or whether you have got
marketing exacts they're going to be
pumping out either with the focus of
maximizing those inbounds or maximizing
qualified inbounds that kind of hit your
ideal client profile have have the cash
to deal with you and understand your
process understand you can help
therefore giving you better sales
inbounds but it's what you're pushing
for which is really interesting so is
that the is that the first point that
you need to think about before you even
consider kind of how you're structuring
your website content and pages and and
your opinion in terms of how you're
dealing with the traffic I think what
incentives are for scale UPS are for
early stage Founders very good ICP
definitions so I would say like so like
if you talk about ideal customer
profiles so who is our target audience
that we're going to market for everybody
that has ever done marketing or product
for that matter knows the more narrow
and the more accurate your ICP
definition is the easier your job gets
of course right like it's easy to get
really good traffic if you know who to
whom you talk because then I can say hey
this is not just a podcast for people
this is a a podcast for B2B Founders um
in marketing in very specific s uh
markets in a very specific language it
becomes more relevant to this particular
target audience and I would say I'm not
sure whether this is particularly your
question but I would
say if there is something that we over
index or like where we are where we
where we in general can do a better job
as early stage Founders than it is to
become more narrow so we tend
to usually be too broad in our messaging
we are always afraid of narrowing down
but what you have to understand this is
that even if you're just selling or
messaging to a very specific crowd you
might not even scare of some other
people that are a little bit standing on
the side you know like that don't fit
your ICP perfectly they will still you
know like I don't know if you're selling
a car there are still people who are
buying it and then use it as a taxi
right like there's always these Chas in
use cases but you still might be still
manufacturing and messaging to a very
specific crowd um and that is just
incredibly important because sometimes
you need to intently say like no we're
selling to this particular crowd
everyone else who's coming in and is
giving us money is
fine but this is what we do and and
nailing this land and expand motion you
know like being really really good for
one particular audience is saving you
money it gives you some very important
numbers about effic
um that then you can use for other
campaigns I'll give you a good example
so let's
say you make a marketing campaign in
some kind of area where you have
different Target groups so let's say you
are I don't know a a bank that has
different kind of verticals that they
are advertising to you know um beauty
salons and truckers and something else
whatever if you just message to everyone
at the same time you don't really know
which kind of group
gr is reacting to what kind of
efficiency but let's say you do this for
every vertical independently right so
like we have a specific messaging for
this group and we have a specific
messaging for this that means you have
to do more work on the marketing side
but you will also know what is the kind
of what what does a good performance
look like it's more likely that in one
specific segment you will see good
performance we all want to sit on one on
this one keyword you know that is ruling
all of them I know I get it I get it but
it is super hard right so like try to
conquer a few of them um I know you also
spoken on this topic quite quite a few
times right so like focus on very
specific keywords and topics and master
those so you know the performance before
you go to anything else and I think I
think that's
important yeah this isn't going where I
expected it but it's very interesting I
mean found I think it's something that
Founders and Marcus in general get hung
up a lot on don't they they a lot of
people seem very very scared to Niche
down and pick a specific audience that
it's going to be their idal client
profile and maybe even pick a specific
sub sector of that audience because they
think it's going to repel the masses
when really what it does is actually
shows that in my experience anyway it
shows that you're specialized for this
one audience and you can help them very
well but quite often when you do that
anyway you still get a bunch of inquir
sales opportunities for all those other
sectors that you thought you were going
to scare the hell out of um still come
to you anyway so it's it's rare that
I've seen kind of niching down with your
message with your target audience with
the sector be a bad
thing I'm not sure if you've ever seen a
company do it in a bad way I think I've
never seen a company that was too
specific I always try to tell them you
know like hey you have to be a little
bit more Brave you know like to get
there and maybe to just draw a circle
back to your original question so how do
we drive more signups for any of this um
if you start to be confident in one
smaller segment and you can really think
about okay it's maybe not about whether
we get a th signups or 2,000 signups why
don't you reframe the question as how do
we make sure that we're going to get a
specific amount of signups from a very
specific vertical or topic for a
specific amount of
money because that is going to then
change
um what you do with your budgets so
let's say you have $2,000 this month for
this particular vertical and let's say
the goal is to have 100
signups depending on where you Market
this is quite a lot or it's very little
right and as we go on then we can also
we can tune for performance we can say
like hey as long as you stay in this
particular domain try to make sure that
you get more for the money that that
that that we give you right it's going
to be always $2,000 so what did you make
last month did you have 50 signups 60
signups okay then we try to do next
month's 70 signups and so forth
so at least now we have fixed this the
incentivization to be more efficient
because in
businesses the question is never like
how do we get to 1 million Revenue it is
the easiest thing in the world it is if
you spend 2 million I can give you 1
million back that's not hard right so
the question is always like how
efficient can you make this and I think
it is much easier to drive more
meaningful signups for the amount of
dollars that you spent if you specialize
in something because then you also start
to know this particular vertical you
know like what kind of messaging do they
respond to um maybe we can even hire
someone with domain experience in this
particular thing that is driving more
signups sometimes than Frameworks where
we just say like okay you know like this
is how you do keyword optimization or
this and that all these optimization
Frameworks are good
I'm not knocking any of these um but the
conversation is a completely different
one if you and I'm pretty sure you also
dealt with this like if you have clients
that know really well with whom they
talk to because they did a lot of
research and they know intimately who
with whom you're dealing with your job
becomes so much
easier yes that's an interesting one in
terms of domain
experience what if it's should do you
think let's take it back to the kind of
founder Le approach yeah what if should
it be something the founder has got
hands-on experience with in terms of
when they're choosing the the sector
they want to double down on and this
kind of particular audience in segment
that they're going to say right this is
the main source of traffic initially I'm
going to double down on I've set this is
my kind of sign up or lead goal and this
is my ad spend or marketing spend per
month and this is what I need to get in
terms to hit that realistic Revenue goal
per month should it then be something
they've got direct domain experience in
if it is just them or likewise they
could could get a marketing higher but
that's on the basis they've got the
revenue to do such I tend to I think I
know what your opinion on this is and I
think I think I tend to agree with it in
the sense that look to some degree you
need to have some kind of domain
experience it does not need to be in the
past right like you can also achieve
domain experience by really sitting
together with your customers and
Prospects and really try to understand
what they do what they
do but it is quite dangerous to
Outsource
at least a start knowledge that you need
to have in your industry to someone else
whether that's an agency or a marketing
hire or whatever but if you do it then
at least hire the person in like first
right so like I'm not a big fan of like
Outsourcing
everything um
because like also if I get hired I'm not
going to be more knowledgeable than my
clients in their specific domain that is
a huge problem if they if they if they
expect me to know more because
if if I don't work with them anymore
that knowledge is kind of gone I'm more
knowledgeable on growth Frameworks
probably and how to drive you know
strategy to kind of bring this down to
the ground but you need to go out and
you need to intimately understand what
the pain points are of the people that
you're talking
to if you don't then you don't know how
a good strategy will look like and you
cannot also like then you can also not
challenge it that's the other thing
right so like we don't need to do every
by ourselves but we need to know what a
good solution looks like and that also
goes for messaging by the way
right so yeah I mean it's it's mostly
what I'd say um but that's we've kind of
teed up quite nicely so we've we've kind
of you've given a bit of a framework so
far in terms of understanding what what
you're optimizing for understanding what
a decent performance is setting aside a
budget um going into kind of a specific
audience and sub sector and you
mentioned kind of knowing their core
pain
points one are this are these like
foundational things and then we say all
right let's throw this in terms of the
messaging and the core pages into a into
a website that this traffic is going to
hit or when you're advising companies on
on this kind of stuff what at what point
do we kind of relay this into what the
traffic's actually going to see when
they come onto our site yeah that's a
very good question and I think the most
important thing before you do anything
is you need to get your tracking in
order I cannot tell you
how sometimes companies are over
complicating this and then they do don't
they don't do anything so what I mean
with that
is
you if you pay attention to the most
basic things when it comes down to
tracking so traffic attribution where
the stuff come from what was the
messaging back then how can we look at
the data and so forth then you don't
need to have it analyzed
immediately but at least
gather it first properly right because
if I even if I engage someone like you
afterwards you know like after six
months hey Sam this is the stuff that
we've been doing and so forth if you
have this data available it's going to
help you massively it's going to help
you loads you're going to see like hey
how did people inter uh interact with a
specific message and so forth and
specifically if you talk about these top
of funnel um
um channels like um SEO or paid
advertising or whatever I can experiment
with those quite a lot without having a
product that is geared towards them
right so like specifically at the start
so let's say I want to try out different
messaging for three different sectors
and they're completely wildly different
like we have a hypothesis that this
particular messaging is going to work or
it's going to be no we're going to
highlight something completely different
you know like a different problem or
whatever I can set up a test with this
without having to have my product
adopted to this whatsoever but for that
I need to make a proper AB test so I'm a
big fan of really running it uh in
parallel so you can adjust for
seasonality that's very very important
because imagine imagine you run a a test
in um us markets while the school
holidays are starting you might be
seeing low conversions all across the
board and just because you separated
your campaigns you know like one of them
was running before the school holidays
and then after you start to have
deteriorating performance so I
think in the very simplest sense do some
AB testing no matter how good that your
idea sounds in your head you're more
likely going to be wrong anyways I know
that I've been wrong with in 70% of the
cases on the 300 experiments that I did
at small PDF over like three three years
and um yeah just just half half the data
gather
Gathering um set up correctly but you
don't need to over comp comp uh over
complicate the analysis right away
someone that is a pro can take that
afterwards as well but I think yeah
setting setting up tracking it's just
like that's
Theo yeah yeah it makes sense so you can
actually measure what's working what's
not
um let's uh let's try and make this
quite actionable so let's say everything
we've discussed so far is perhaps for a
company and in their case they're trying
to feed I don't know maybe they've got a
very maybe they've got like one or two
sales reps they want to feed demos um
and let's say it doesn't really matter
what space they're in but let's say they
are in some kind of tech space perhaps
they are a very first thing that's come
to my mind is CRM they're very very
Niche down CRM though so they're not
doing like a traditional CRM for I don't
know for Tech sales people but maybe
they're doing it for like I don't know
biotechnology or some really obscure
science so they're in a they're in a not
a massively competitive category they've
gone after a very Niche audience and I
don't even know if this audience is
going to have any demand or but that
doesn't matter because this is just an
example
now what are are there um in terms of
how they they've got their tracking set
up like you recommended so they can ab
test messaging they can see what
actually works the traffic that's coming
in how it's um affect on the site and
what's what's converting what's
not but we know traditional SAS sites
will have Pages like I don't know home
about maybe they'll have pricing some
will share it some won't some will have
a live demo some will gate a live demo
um no some will have a few testimonials
and then like you say your classic get a
demo call to action top right and then
uh your form some will some will be kind
of really light on content maybe only
have five to seven pages some will be
huge with a ton of resources blogs
podcasts video section video library and
more like is there a kind of standard
framework that you recommend to these
companies when you're advising them that
this is what the setup should be is it
like go MVP first and scale it out or
how do you think businesses should kind
of go when they're actually constructing
these
sites there is um let's say so you are
very early stage right so like the way
that you just also described it um and a
good frame of mind to have here is if
you separate it into three stages if you
take the product growth approach or like
SAS or like a classical SAS business on
how you build it up you usually have
three things that you go through first
you need to kind of prove that you can
bring some people that's the easiest
part so like we have some kind of value
proposition through your marketing
campaign I have some kind of messaging I
can start to optimize this this is
usually your CTR right like that's the
clickthrough rate um if your messaging
does not work then people are not going
to click through it and there's just a
specific um conversion rate that just
does not not work anymore because no
matter how many of those people you
would convert afterwards into paid
customers it's just not going to work so
that's just in the first place right so
we can already without having
monetization on our site you know
figured out you know like because people
are also wondering how much should I
charge and so forth you need to first
get this first step done in terms of how
many people can I bring in for how many
dollars this was the first part of your
original question right so like how many
signups can I get the second part is
let's say the signups are the gate to
use the product in the first place then
you can start to build out your product
what we then want to test is we want to
test how many of these people that we
just brought in through these signups
can we actually retain over 30 days or
eight weeks after a specific amount of
uh usage your
time and then once we have that proven
only then and this is most of the time
the case for free which is most like you
know like if you have self serve
whatever trial demo whatever if you can
retain people over that stage then you
can start to optimize your
monetization because if you start to
optimize your monetization or think
about o you know like what should we say
in the marketing campaign how expensive
it is and so
forth if you cannot excite people about
your value
proposition for
free then we have another problem there
are some examples of companies where
they said that the product is free and
once they started to charge money log me
in for instance is one of those log me
in.com uh they actually made like they
had better signups once they said that
it's cost something because people
didn't believe them it's going to be
free or some luxurious projects you know
like uh watches and stuff you know like
they want to have a specific price but
aside from those um you want to go
through these steps first can I bring
free users in some kind of for some kind
of amount of dollars
can I retain a specific amount and then
I can start to monetize because these
steps are kind of independent from each
other should that always be the way not
always absolutely not because it depends
also like to whom you sell of course I
was going to say if I'm and I understand
this like if I'm a SAS company and I've
got some funding and I've got cash in
the bank then by all means I can do that
approach and I can kind of check my
products working for eight weeks with
free signup
no if I'm on the flip side though if I'm
bootstrapped I might not have the runway
to Let's Pretend I've got a decent
product so I'm hoping it is but if if
I'm trying to get people in for free for
eight weeks and trying to kind of test
that theosis well I'd imagine it's yeah
so just just to be clear right so like
this does not mean that you wait for
eight weeks for any results or whatever
but like we also have some leading
indicators so for instance you have most
of the people that are dropping off are
within the first day it's just what it
is right so like we know that 65 70% of
people are just not coming back and it
can still start to kind of optimize
around this um but and you can do some
of these things also in parallel of
course but the fact of the matter is
even if you're bootstrapped even if you
have the best Founders even if you have
the best brains on any product it's
going to take you two years in average
to find product Market fit that includes
what you do on marketing that includes
what you do on the product and that
includes on what you do on the pricing
look monetization you can always
optimize you will always kind of kind
kind of find some kind of price you know
like can we go a little bit up can we
should should we go a little bit down
you know like this is going to move the
needle a little bit but again if you
mess up the marketing if you cannot get
an initial amount of people in that you
then can also get in the future and that
can also be sometimes leveraged through
salese that are going out and generate
initial demand which I'm also a big fan
of by the way as a marketing uh thing
then everything is for nothing right and
that's the thing especially if you are
bootstrapped as you said as a Founder
you are sometimes doing everything
yourself and that's why you have to wear
the sales hat sometimes sometimes
marketing and so forth so that yeah
that's just the nature of the business
yeah got it so this exercise is
basically to prove that our product can
retain customers and keep them inside
using it yeah because if we don't then
we are forever trapped in this
short-term Loop that just kills a lot of
companies it's just like okay we know
how we can get another
$50 in the next month but then the month
after these people are starting to churn
and I think if you want to have one more
tip of this of course is that resist the
urge to just put in more at the top I've
seen so many small stage companies who
spent like $1,000 on a campaign and and
then they kind of thought hm well maybe
we have to double the budget let's see
what happens but it is unless you invest
into something that has compound
interest you know like SEO optimizations
or content that you know like is
starting to compound over time for paid
advertising that usually that your
performance does not go up it just does
not go up it if anything if you start to
spend more money at some point it
actually goes down so try to find
something that performs well at least on
the initial smaller
numbers and then you know try to build
up from there I would say so again it is
about efficiency it's not about can we
get $500 the question is always like how
little can we spend to get the
$500 before we then go further and so
forth got
it from a sign up basis do you think
that we should aim once we've let's say
we've proven that we can retain Prospect
is then do we try and push them to go on
a paid version do we do you recommend we
keep it kind of free for life and then
once they've perhaps hit a cap that
we've set in place whether that is on
their own usage yeah signups Etc then
they're naturally going to be pushed
towards a paid member or request to
speak to sales depending what the flow
of our model is yeah this is the Eternal
question of whether you should do a
freemium a trial or an interactive demo
and unfortunately the answer is always
like it depends MH in general the way
that we used to do it at small PDF I
think was was really really good for I
would say the majority of companies so
you have some kind of free version of
your product and let's say so small PDF
was for managing documents you know like
processing PDFs that kind of stuff so
what is the premium in there it means
that you can use almost the entire
platform for free but not over a
specific amount of usage so we're
starting to do to limit usage and what
that means is is that as soon as you
want to process more than two documents
per day then you get a banner which says
hey you need to sign sign up for a pay
trial now this particularly pay trial
you have to enter your credit card right
like this is a lot of friction that is
now coming towards this and uh then you
are in this trial and then if you don't
cancel it after seven days which is
usually time limited for a lot of the
b2c and lower B2B markets then you're
being converted into a paying customer
you need to be aware though that most of
the people that will sign up and this is
normal this is what we talk about when
we talk about performance they will can
again why because as soon as you have a
paid trial people want to just try it
out and then they see that it doesn't
work and then they go again but we
usually have some kind of numbers that
you can go with so like so good
performance numbers so for instance I
talk about anything that is above 1% in
the b2c market so like from a thousand
visitors that we're going to get in to
paid is really really good that is
really really good so you know you can
have anything from 0.1% to 1% conversion
rate to paid that is already quite good
in B2B that number is not good there you
talk about 5 to 7% in Enterprise maybe
you have
20% now why do we end up with a number
like 20% we know that in average an
Enterprise company is going to go
through four to five different software
solutions that they're going to go and
reevaluate really really deep before
they make a decision they just don't
have the capacity that much um to behave
like b2c customers who are just like
Googling something you know they go and
then they they're gone it's just not
happening and you also don't have that
much solutions to compete
against yeah yeah yeah um as as we wrap
things up are there
any
big errors that you see when it comes to
acquiring signups like we've talked
about kind of using eight weeks to prove
that the the product is something that
customers enjoy using and happy with and
find Value in
are there any kind of big mistakes that
companies you see all the time in that
flow that you need to avoid what I have
seen some companies trying to do is to
copy strategies from bigger
Enterprises that are quite disastrous so
a good example is to offer
incentivization for signups so you give
some I'm I'm not talking
against
hey maybe I am I don't know like but
like you get a free month if you're
doing this on top right and so forth and
like hey if you invite Sam number two
then you're going to get this and so
forth it's very
dangerous to have a system that can be
gamified because people will do it and
that's not because people are bad
natured it's just that if somebody can
save money then they will do it and uh I
would say that's probably one of the
biggest ones try not to force customer
success at least in the start by
incentivizing people don't give them
money to engage with your product um you
want to find some kind of number that is
without paying other people to love your
stuff interesting one isn't it because
some uh B2B sass are big for incentives
I'm not sure if you meant quite this way
but I don't know the classic $100 $150
Amazon gift card to take a demo and some
companies I think it was a directive a
digital marketing company said it
actually worked effectively for them um
but that's the only time I've ever seen
a company say it actually worked well in
a profitable manner I've heard a lot of
negative things are there are so many
ways in how this can go wrong but with
Enterprise um and you they're they
probably also structured it in a
specific way that something else needs
to happen right so like they need to sit
through the entire demo or something
whatever and they also have some bad
traffic and so forth but essentially
what you're doing is you're trying to
bribe someone to bring a software into
the Enterprise I'm a little bit
skeptical um I think you can do it if
you have a really big company and you
can also control and make sure that look
you know I mean this is a good thing but
you're not going to score a $30,000
contract with a $100 demo for sure not
that's not
happening yeah I can see I can see it as
an experiment like if you put aside a
few thousand and just say look with
these warm accounts that have engaged on
our website x amount of times and they
hit our ICP all right we're going to
experiment with maybe not Amazon gift
card but something unique that gives
them a bit of an incentive to maybe tip
them over the edge I can see that that
might do something but yeah so that's a
that's my only thought so let's say you
have an amazing product where you can
blow people away in 5 seconds like hey
you did not know that this is
possible you know like you have really
like you know like these these these
five to 10 second pitches that are just
like I did not know a product for this
kind of exists there I give it to you I
kind of see like okay you know what this
is actually quite clever let's do it but
uh yeah but giving away free socks on a
on a on a sales Booth somewhere and then
say like oh this is an mql it's kind of
weird like or an SQL it does not
Weir yeah yeah one one final one is
there a proven def difference between an
mql and an SQL for yourself and if so
what is it um I use pqls which are
product qualified leads and the
difference in there is is that we try to
qualify stuff by behavior and a product
qualified lead could be exactly what I
said at the start right so like they do
specific things in your product like
they hey they have visited DET terms of
certain pages or they have uh contacted
sales or they're using the product
successfully whatever you know like they
start to gather points and if they go
over a specific threshold then they're
qualified um but to address your actual
question what's the difference is I
think
mqls are still too too fuzzy defined
like there's no scientific definition of
what an mql really is or like what is a
good one whereas sqls are very well
understood on the acquisition side in
terms of like um like sales is very very
good in separating these steal stages
you know like they're warm they're super
warm super cold this this stuff and so
forth and I wish we would be more
successful in starting
to like attribute these Shades of Gray
to customer success rather than just
like buying Journey do you know what I
mean right so like how long does it take
for someone to use your product
successfully what is the step right so
like when is the aha moment of something
when do they go like oh my God this is
so amazing when is it the Eureka moment
when do they become fans when do they go
like I need to talk to a salesperson and
these in between steps we can also
measure through actual um you know
engagement
Behavior call yeah we call is product
light sales that's basically the entire
theory behind product light sales yeah
nice yeah very much appreciate the
conversation enjoyed the back and forth
thanks very much for sharing your ideas
on all things turning traffic to signups
so with that please tell everyone yeah
no worries we have to have to get you on
for a V2 at some stage um but yeah
please do share more about have one
tuning in can connect with you learn
more and send anyone where you want to
send them people can just go to my
website which is or like
www.ar.com it's just my first name and
my last name.com and uh yeah I do so
much stuff that I'm not even going to
list it but I have a podcast I have
courses I do a lot of stuff for free so
uh check it out and um yeah that's where
you find me and usually also in your
comments because when I have time I also
start to engage with your stuff which I
really like so I'm very glad someone's
commenting on my LinkedIn posts I no
come on I'm I'm very you're one of the
people that that I met when uh you know
a year ago when we kind of started to
embark on this journey as well and I'm
very grateful to have met you too yeah
likewise likewise well um yeah thanks
again Leah we shall put all of those
links in the show notes at
businessgrowth do marketing so you can
check them out got to give a shout out
to our sponsor deal front.com the goto
Market platform for gdpr compliant leads
for your sales and marketing team there
at deal front.com if you enjoyed the
show a rating or view on Apple goes a
long way or subscribe on YouTube and
we'll catch you on the next one for more
nobs B2B marketing tips to grow your
Revenue cheers for tuning in